A. A message digest is a cryptographic hash function containing a string of digits created by a one-way hashing formula. 
B. Message digests are designed to protect the integrity of a piece of data or media to detect changes and alterations to any part of a message. 
C. They are a type of cryptography utilizing hash values that can warn the copyright owner of any modifications applied to their work. 
D. Message digest hash numbers represent specific files containing the protected works. One message digest is assigned to particular data content. 
E. It can reference a change made deliberately or accidentally, but it prompts the owner to identify the modification as well as the individual(s) making the change. 
F. Message digests are algorithmic numbers.
G. This term is also known as a hash value and sometimes as a checksum
H. The particular message digest will change if the file changes. Not only can message digests help determine file changes, but can also assist in locating duplicate files. 
I. Message digests can be produced on UNIX systems with the MD5 command. MD5s are securely stored on systems and can reveal if an unauthorized user has accessed a file. It has been shown that MD5 is unreliable with problems relating to collision (where 2 keys for different data are the same) and it is no longer used.
J. File sharing programs, such as peer-to-peer (P2P), utilize message digests to warn users when downloading identical files. It can also pinpoint the origin of duplicate downloads. Besides MD5, SHA and CRC32 are other message digest algorithms.
K. Message digests are encrypted with private keys creating a digital signature. This results in a type of validation ensuring that the appropriate user is accessing protected information. Message digests protect one-way hash algorithms taking random data and transmitting a set length hash value.

Algorithms 
---------


1. MD5 - The MD5 (Message Digest) algorithm is a widely used cryptographic hash function producing a 128-bit (16-byte) hash value, typically expressed in text format 
      as a 32 digit hexadecimal number. MD5 has been utilized in a wide variety of cryptographic applications, and is also commonly used to verify data integrity.
      MD5 is not collision resistant and several flaws were found in the design of MD5.
      MD5 is considered cryptographically broken and is unsuitable for further use. 
      
2. FIPS 180-4 specifies seven hash algorithms

SHA-1 (Secure Hash Algorithm-1) -
SHA-2 family of hash algorithms: SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512, SHA-512/224, and SHA-512/256

3. FIPS 202 specifies the new SHA-3 family of permutation-based functions based on KECCAK as a result of the “SHA-3” Cryptographic Hash Algorithm Competition. FIPS 202 specifies:

SHA-3 Four fixed-length hash algorithms: SHA3-224, SHA3-256, SHA3-384, and SHA3-512; and
Two closely related, “extendable-output” functions (XOFs): SHAKE128 and SHAKE256.

Currently only the four fixed-length SHA-3 algorithms are approved hash algorithms, providing alternatives to the SHA-2 family of hash functions. 
The XOFs can be specialized to hash functions, subject to additional security considerations. Guideline for using the XOFs will be provided in the future

